Important events such as Good Friday and Palm Sunday occur shortly
before Easter. Easter is a movable feast, meaning that its date changes
annually rather than occurring on a fixed day of the calendar. The
Western Christian churches generally follow the Gregorian calendar when
determining Easter. They examine how different calendar systems
influenced the scheduling of the holiday. Some Eastern Christian
churches calculate Easter according to the Julian calendar. According to
traditional rules Easter is celebrated on the first Sunday after the
first full moon following the spring equinox. Many Christian traditions
use ecclesiastical approximations of the equinox and full moon when
calculating the date. The determination of Easter’s date is based on a
combination of solar and lunar cycles. Because of these connections the
date of Easter determines the schedule of many Christian liturgical
events. This method of calculation was formalized during early Christian
history. The changing date of Easter also demonstrates how lunar cycles
affect cultural and religious calendars. The annual calculation
continues to be an interesting example of the relationship between
astronomy and historical tradition. Historians and theologians sometimes
study the historical development of Easter calculations. Some Eastern
Christian churches calculate Easter according to the Julian calendar.
Many Christian traditions use ecclesiastical approximations of the
equinox and full moon when calculating the date. Because of this range
the list of Easter dates changes each year according to astronomical
cycles. Historians and theologians sometimes study the historical
development of Easter calculations. They examine how different calendar
systems influenced the scheduling of the holiday. Because of this range
the list of Easter dates changes each year according to astronomical
cycles. Lists of Easter dates therefore combine astronomical observation
with religious tradition. Easter is a movable feast, meaning that its
date changes annually rather than occurring on a fixed day of the
calendar. The earliest possible date for Easter Sunday is March twenty
second. The determination of Easter’s date is based on a combination of
solar and lunar cycles. These tables help churches and communities plan
religious services and celebrations. As a result Easter may occur on any
Sunday between late March and late April. The determination of Easter’s
date is based on a combination of solar and lunar cycles. The
determination of Easter’s date is based on a combination of solar and
lunar cycles. The season of Lent also ends with the celebration of
Easter. This method of calculation was formalized during early Christian
history. Lists of Easter dates therefore combine astronomical
observation with religious tradition. The Council of
