A later reform introduced the College Football Playoff which expanded
the championship competition. Although the Bowl Championship Series
helped organize the title process debates about rankings continued among
fans and analysts. The history of College football national
championships in NCAA Division I FBS reflects the long tradition of
competitive university athletics in the United States. In earlier
decades College football national championships in NCAA Division I FBS
were often determined by polls conducted among sports writers and
coaches. The popularity of college football ensures that championship
games attract large television audiences and stadium crowds. College
football national championships in NCAA Division I FBS represent the
highest level of achievement in American college football. The playoff
system selects four leading teams to compete in semifinal games followed
by a national championship game. College football national championships
in NCAA Division I FBS represent the highest level of achievement in
American college football. Because college football remains one of the
most followed sports in the United States the championship tradition
continues to attract attention each season. The history of College
football national championships in NCAA Division I FBS reflects the long
tradition of competitive university athletics in the United States. In
earlier decades College football national championships in NCAA Division
I FBS were often determined by polls conducted among sports writers and
coaches. Coaches who lead teams to College football national
championships in NCAA Division I FBS also gain national recognition. A
later reform introduced the College Football Playoff which expanded the
championship competition. The popularity of college football ensures
that championship games attract large television audiences and stadium
crowds. Two well known ranking systems historically used for College
football national championships in NCAA Division I FBS were the
Associated Press poll and the Coaches poll. College football national
championships in NCAA Division I FBS represent the highest level of
achievement in American college football. In the late twentieth century
a new system known as the Bowl Championship Series attempted to create a
clearer championship structure. Although the Bowl Championship Series
helped organize the title process debates about rankings continued among
fans and analysts. In the late twentieth century a new system known as
the Bowl Championship Series attempted to create a clearer championship
structure. College football national championships in NCAA Division I
